---
layout: post
title:  "Getting Started with AWS Lambda"
date:   2014-11-13
author: "Chris Chalfant"
---

*Could not find the slide deck for this talk, though it may appear later*

[Getting Started Guide](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/welcome.html)

We were very excited to hear this talk after the keynote introduction. We were already thinking of ways to make use of it in the dashboard project. The idea of writing short, stateless, easy-to-test lambda functions that respond to changes in data without managing all of the cruft around starting, scaling compute infrastructure blew our minds.

Tim Wagner, Gnl Mgr AWS Lambda

What if every AWS service could generate events? Dang.


* Event-driven compute
* stateless request-driven code

Mention of dynamodb streams--new feature describing changes to DDB. DDB streams can trigger events to Lambda

Can send custom events to Lambda.

At Launch
---------
* BYOC: at launch just nodejs
* AWS SDK, ImageMagick built-in
* stateless
* you can use /tmp, processes, threads, sockets (outbound)
* no inbound socket conns
* can import node libraries

Configuring
-----------
* ram from 128MB to 1GB in 64MB steps
* lambda tells you how much ram it used
* give your lambda a name and event source

Events
------
* AWS sends to lambda using json
* S3 and custom events are unordered and lambdas will be tried 3x
* DynamoDB and Kinesis events will be ordered, bundled, retried forever

lambdas get IAM roles just like instances so they can make aws calls.
you can test your lambdas from the mngmnt console with sample events.
logs go to cloudwatch.

lambdas can call other lambdas (yodawg) but watch for inf recursion.

Roles
-----
* execution roles (what can lambda do?)
* invocation roles (who can exec lambda)

Preview
-------
* 25 concurrent requests
* 60 secs / request
* s3, dynamodb, kinesis suppt

Compute is priced in 100ms chunks
